Blog literals (#223)
urbit/developers.urbit.org: content/blog/literals.md

+++
title = "What Every Hooner Should Know About Literals on Urbit"
date = "2022-11-14"
description = "Down the rabbit hole of the atom parser."
[extra]
author = "N E Davis"
ship = "~lagrev-nocfep"
image = "https://www.themarginalian.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/wilsonbentley_snowflakes0.jpg?fit=1183%2C621&ssl=1"
+++

![](https://www.themarginalian.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/wilsonbentley_snowflakes0.jpg?fit=1183%2C621&ssl=1)

#  What Every Hooner Should Know About Literals on Urbit

> The Hoon source builder handles conversions between values and applications of auras and molds automatically, and most of the time you won't be surprised.  But sometimes you run into something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Hoon compiler handles conversions between values and applications of auras and molds automatically, and most of the time you won't be surprised.  But sometimes you run into something like this:
```

| `@s` | signed integer, sign bit low | — | — | Has no characteristic form. |
| `@sb` | signed binary | `--0b____.____` | `--0b11.1000` | |
| `@sd` | signed decimal | `--___.___` | `--1.000.056` | |
| `@si` | signed decimal | `--_____` | `--0i1000` | |
| `@sv` | signed base32 | `--0v_____._____` | `-0v1df64.49beg` | |
| `@sw` | signed base64 | `--0w_____._____` | `--0wbnC.8haTg` | |
| `@sx` | signed hexadecimal | `--0x____.____` | `-0x5f5.e138` | |
| `@t` | UTF-8 text (cord) | `''` or `~~___` | `'howdy'` | |
| `@ta` | ASCII text (knot) | `~._____` | `~.howdy` | Character restrictions; use `++sane`. |
| `@tas` | ASCII text symbol (term) | `%_____` | `%howdy` | Character restrictions; use `++sane`. |
| `@u` | unsigned integer | — | — | Has no characteristic form. |
| `@ub` | unsigned binary | `0b____.____` | `0b11.1000` | |
| `@ud` | unsigned decimal | `___.___` | `1.000.056` | |
| `@ui` | unsigned decimal | `____` | `0i1000` | |
| `@uv` | unsigned base32 | `0v_____._____` | `0v1df64.49beg` | |
| `@uw` | unsigned base64 | `0w_____._____` | `0wbnC.8haTg` | |
| `@ux` | unsigned hexadecimal | `0x____.____` | `0x5f5.e138` | |

> You'll also find some irregular auras in use:  `%lull`, for instance, has a `@uxblob` type.  Nonstandard auras (i.e. those not listed in the table above) 

Reviewer: This line is a bit weird.. maybe typo'd sentence structure?
